README.md, before:

# Bio-inspired optimization algorithms
Handbook on optimization algorithms by MIT Press: [PDF](https://algorithmsbook.com/optimization/files/optimization.pdf) under Creative Commons License

Code for each algorithm is separated into 4 main files:
- `main.py`: running the main function and definition of user-configurable options
- `<algorithm>.py`: main algorithm for the relevant optimizer. Passing relevant samplers, objective functions along with options defined in `main.py` will make it work
- `utils.py`: graphing functions
- `function.py`: defining samplers, objective functions, crossover/mutation relevant for each sample objective

## Simulated Annealing
### Objective function(s)
Mix of sinusoidal functions. Sample output is present in `output/base.jpg`

### Output
On running main,py, graphs are generated for the objective function defined in `annealing/function.py` for the following:
- GIF of candidates and objective function as temperature changes
- Temperature vs iterations
- Acceptance probability vs iterations
- Objective function vs iterations
- Plot of the objective function

Sample outputs are present in `annealing/output/`

### Configs
Initialization and configuration options are available in `annealing/main.py`


## Genetic Algorithm
### Objective function(s)
Generating a sorted list of first K non-negative integers (can sort in increasing or decreasing order)

### Output
On running main,py, a graph for worst and best performer in an iteration is generated in `genetic_evo/output/`.

Sample outputs are present in `genetic_evo/output/`

### Configs
Initialization and configuration options are available in `genetic_evo/main.py`

Commit message:

Batch outputs annealing, basic input ga

README.md, after:

[https://towardsdatascience.com/unit-7-differential-evolution-automated-machine-learning-eb22014e592e](https://towardsdatascience.com/unit-7-differential-evolution-automated-machine-learning-eb22014e592e)

# Bio-inspired optimization algorithms
Handbook on optimization algorithms by MIT Press: [PDF](https://algorithmsbook.com/optimization/files/optimization.pdf) under Creative Commons License

Code for each algorithm is separated into 4 main files:
- `main.py`: running the main function and definition of user-configurable options
- `<algorithm>.py`: main algorithm for the relevant optimizer. Passing relevant samplers, objective functions along with options defined in `main.py` will make it work
- `utils.py`: graphing functions
- `function.py`: defining samplers, objective functions, crossover/mutation relevant for each sample objective

Each algorithm contains a run for a simple objective function and for MNIST digit classification.
Observations and comments are mentioned in each algorithm's folder in a `README.md` file.

## Simulated Annealing
### Univariate objective function(s)
- Mix of sinusoidal functions.
- MNIST digit classification

### Output
On running main,py, graphs are generated for the objective function defined in `annealing/function.py` for the following:
- GIF of candidates and objective function as temperature changes
- Temperature vs iterations
- Acceptance probability vs iterations
- Objective function vs iterations
- Plot of the objective function

Sample outputs are present in `annealing/output/`
Combined plots for 100 runs are also present. For more details please check `annealing/README.md`

### Configs
Initialization and configuration options are available in `annealing/main.py`


## Genetic Algorithm
### Objective function(s)
- Generating a sorted list of first K non-negative integers (can sort in increasing or decreasing order)
- MNIST digit classification

### Output
On running main,py, a graph for worst and best performer in an iteration is generated in `genetic_evo/output/`.

Sample outputs are present in `genetic_evo/output/`

### Configs
Initialization and configuration options are available in `genetic_evo/main.py`


## Differential Evolution
### Objective function
MNIST classification
